- [Instructor] Let's now take a look at the last of the APIs
and the Enterprise Edition concurrency utilities,
the ContextService API.
Before that let's quickly revise a couple of terms
we have used them before, here and there,
but let's take a look again.
The first one is, what is a contextual object?
So it is any Java object or instance
which will have the particular application
component's container context associated with it.
And when you talk about a contextual task
it is a task which is submitted to the managed resource.
So when a task instance is submitted
to a managed instance of the ExecutorService
then the task becomes a contextual task.
And when the contextual task runs the task behaves
as if it were still running inside
the container it was submitted with.
When you have an application component
like Enterprise JavaBean or a servlet
then we know that the thread that is running
is going to have the contextual information
associated with it.
Now when you talk about the ContextService API
it is going to allow applications
to create contextual objects without a managed executor.
Let's understand this point.
If we try to create a thread using
the Java Standard Edition platform
inside the enterprise environment,
we know that the contextual information
is not guaranteed to be given to the thread,
because the container is not aware of the thread
that you created with the SE platform.
If you want to capture
the additional information
of the container context, if you really want out a way
where you will capture container context
and run with that context later,
even on another instance of the server,
or maybe on a server restart,
then ContextService API is the way to do it.
It will give you a way to capture
that context information, store it,
so that you can run it at a later point in time.
And how does it do that?
It uses these dynamic proxy capabilities
that are provided under the java.lang.reflect package
to associate the application component's context
with the object instance.
So this object now becomes a contextual object
and whenever a method on the contextual object runs
then the method executes with the thread context
of that associated application component instance.
Okay, now this API is of course used in advanced scenarios
and there's also one thing that the specification
tells us that ManagedExecutorService is likely
to use this context service internally
to make sure that the container context
is propagated to the threads.
This is only used in advanced scenarios
we are going to take one look at this
and let's also understand that when you talk
about ContextService it helps you
to create contextual objects,
which means these contextual objects
will have the context information.
And what is that?
That's JNDI naming, class loader information,
and security context.
So in the next video we look at a demo for ContextService
where we'll try to capture the security information.
Let's look at that in the next video.